NARRATOR:
A long, long time ago...
NARRATOR: A time recalled
through Kalos legend...
AILA: No. Wait.
AILA: Jan, please don't go!
JAN: Aila, I promise you I
will defeat Yveltal. Have faith,
and wait for me.
JAN: Talonflame, go!
TALONFLAME: [AFFIRMATIVE]
JAN: Please.
AILA: Jan, no!
NARRATOR: And so, a young man
embarked on a journey, leaving
his beloved behind...
NARRATOR: His target, the
Destructon Pokémon, Yveltal!
I stand tall
'Cause I know I'm a winner
Knock me down
I'll just get up again
You've met your match
Yeah, I'm no beginner
Pokémon
Gotta catch 'em all!
I stand tall 'cause
I know I'm a winner
Pokémon
Gotta catch 'em all!
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
The Maiden Statue
HELIOPTILE: [QUESTIONING]
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Hey!
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Alexa!
ALEXA: Hi, Professor Sycamore!
ALEXA: Are you here to
investigate the ruins, too?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Well, it is
the biggest find of the century.
The ruins that confirm
the truth of a Kalos legend!
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Who knew
they would be found at such a
high altitude?
ALEXA: Right. It's amazing they
were never discovered until now.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
So where is the Maiden Statue?
ALEXA: Come. I'll show you.
ALEXA: You see, it was
accidentally discovered on a
satellite image.
ALEXA: A temple‐like structure,
overgrown by nature.
ALEXA: Because the location
is fairly treacherous, it took
quite some time to get
a research team up here.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Why did you
accompany the research team,
Alexa?
ALEXA: Because of this.
ALEXA: Through the discovery of
various artifacts,
we knew there was
an ancient nation
that flourished here, which
ultimately became the foundation
of civilization in Kalos.
HELIOPTILE: [AFFECTIONATE]
ALEXA: I wanted to report on the
lives of the people and Pokémon
living at that time.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: That's it.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: The statue
of Aila, the stone‐eyed maiden,
as described in Kalos legend...
ALEXA: It's as though someone
took a moment of her life and
carved it into stone.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Exactly as the legend describes.
ALEXA:
Ancient historical records?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: That's
right. And we've come to know
this particular segment
as the chapter of the
stone‐eyed maiden.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Her hair, her necklace...
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Yes,
everything written here within
these records
perfectly matches the statue.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: For the
longest time, people have
debated whether what's written
here actually took place, or if
it was simply fabricated by
someone during ancient times...
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Now we have
the statue. So we may finally
get the answer.
ALEXA: Are you're saying this
statue wasn't a figment
of someone's imagination? Don't
you think that it's entirely
possible that someone created
it based on these records.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: That
can't be ruled out. However...
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Her expression...
I don't think that this is
any ordinary statue.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
I believe the stone‐eyed maiden
actually existed.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: And the one
who turned her into stone
is none other than Yveltal,
the Destruction Pokémon.
ALEXA: Yveltal?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Based on all
the research conducted up
until now, it is believed that
this symbol resembling a Y is a
reference to Yveltal. In all the
drawings we have of it...Those
drawings and this symbol
look very much the same to me.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: The story
begins when two people from
different social classes‐‐a
young poor man named Jan, and
Aila, the village chief's
daughtermeet and fall in love.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
At the time, the city's oracle,
Olympica, made a prediction.
OLYMPICA: Yes.
OLYMPICA: I see it. Yveltal will
descend upon this land.
Absorbing the life force of all
living things, Yveltal's life
will come to an end
OLYMPICA: And then it will turn
into a cocoon once more. It is
however impossible for
any of us to escape this fate.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: When Aila's
father learned of this prophecy,
he ordered Jan to defeat Yveltal
in order to protect the city.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: He promised
his daughter's hand in marriage
if Jan
successfully defeated Yveltal.
AILA: You don't have to listen
to my father and his promise!
Yveltal is extremely dangerous!
You can't defeat it! No one can
defeat it! Don't even try!
AILA: Jan, please
don't go. I'm begging you!
JAN: Aila, I promise
you I will defeat Yveltal.
JAN: Have faith,
and wait for me.
YVELTAL: [ROARING]
JAN: It's Yveltal!
JAN: Aila!
AILA: Jan! Stay away!
JAN: Talonflame!
TALONFLAME: [ATTACKING]
YVELTAL: [OBLIVION WING MOVE]
JAN: Why you...
YVELTAL: [ROARING]
AILA: Jan!
YVELTAL: [OBLIVION WING MOVE]
ALEXA: What happened
to Yveltal after that?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Like the
prediction said, it changed its
shape into a cocoon.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: It absorbed
all life sources around it,
and the land became barren...
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: So
it could enter its long slumber.
ALEXA: Aila leaped
between Yveltal and Jan, then...
JAN: Aila...
ALEXA: Do we know
where Yveltal is now?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: One theory
states it awakens every thousand
years, but...it's uncertain
if Yveltal's now a cocoon,
or awake and active.
OLYMPICA: The precious few
people and Pokémon who survived
have left this land.
OLYMPICA:
I'm leaving this land, too.
JAN: How could
this have taken place?
OLYMPICA: There's only one
chance of rescuing the girl.
OLYMPICA: Perhaps Xerneas
is able to bring her back...
JAN: Xerneas?
OLYMPICA: Yveltal's equal.
The Life Pokémon. When Xerneas
transforms into a large tree, it
shares its power with the land.
And that sharing can
bring even the most barren of
lands back to life.
JAN: So, do you
know where Xerneas is?
OLYMPICA: Find a forest
that glimmers like a rainbow.
Wherever Xerneas is,
that forest flourishes...
ALEXA: So, the symbol X...
It's a reference to Xerneas,
isn't it?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Yes, that's right.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Jan visited
many lush forests. But because
Xerneas is constantly on the
move, sadly, Jan wasn't ever
able to find it.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
And time passed mercilessly...
GOGOAT: [ALERT]
JAN: What?
GOGOAT: [STRUGGLING]
JAN: We can't stop. We need
to find out where Xerneas is.
SCATTERBUG: [WEAK]
JAN: The forest. It's lifeless!
JAN: Is it Yveltal?
OLD MAN:
It's terrible, isn't it?
JAN: Can you
tell me what happened?
OLD MAN: His people came,
and then he took Xerneas away!
JAN: Xerneas?!
ASH:
Who's that Pokémon?
ASH: It's Yveltal!
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: The one who
took Xerneas away turned out to
be the ruler of a small kingdom.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: His goal? He
tried to monopolize the Life
Pokémon's power.
For his own selfish purposes.
ALEXA: So because Xerneas was
taken awaythe forest turned
barren and brown?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Yes, and all
due to one
man's selfish actions.
VEOFUM : What is going on? I
brought Xerneas to my garden,
yet nothing is flourishing!
VEOFUM: So, does that mean
bestowing eternal life is
nothing more than a
worthless illusion, Xerneas?
VEOFUM: Set it on fire.
ADVISOR: Are you sure of that?
VEOFUM: Do it! It is of no
worth to me. And if it brings me
no benefit... burn it!
ADVISOR: Let's go!
JAN: Stop it!
ADVISOR:
You have no right to be here!
JAN: Put out that fire!
VEOFUM: Silence!
JAN: No, release Xerneas and
extinguish the fire at once!
VEOFUM: Xerneas belongs to me. I
will do anything I want with it!
JAN: Don't you feel anything
seeing it burning? Making
Xerneas suffer will
bring misfortune and pain!
VEOFUM: Such utter nonsense.
Get rid of this man at once.
ADVISOR: Sir!
VEOFUM: Stop! There's
nothing to worry about!
You must remain calm!
VEOFUM: What in
the world is that thing?
ALEXA: So, at that
moment, Zygarde appeared?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Yes.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
This symbol resembling a Z
is a reference to Zygarde.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Zygarde, the Order Pokémon.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Zygarde
watches over Kalos's ecological
system and unleashes
its fury on those who try to
destroy that system.
RHYPERIOR: [SCARED]
ZYGARDE: [ROARING]
ALEXA: It's like the human
immune system. How it tries to
heal irregularities in the body
and bring it back into balance.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: You're
right. Zygarde is also known
throughout the land as the
watcher of Kalos.
It eradicates
harmful situations.
GOGOAT: [WORRIED]
JAN: Xerneas! I'm begging you to
assist me! Come to my aid with
your great power!
JAN: Wait! Xerneas!
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
At that moment, Jan came to a
realization. He knew that the
land destroyed by Yveltal would
someday become
even more lush, and alive.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: So he made
the decision to protect the
land, alongside Aila.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: It's said
Jan recorded everything that he
saw and experienced.
ALEXA: And that's what
has been passed down to us.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: After a very
long time, the land became
plagued by a
devastating drought.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: And once
again, it became savagely barren
and devoid of life.
GOGOAT: [CONTENTED]
JAN: Dear Gogoat...
JAN: Xerneas, you have come!
JAN: Aila...
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Unfortunately, according to
legend, Aila never
returned to her original state.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: I believe
both Xerneas and Yveltal are
incarnations of nature that take
care of the land. That is their
task and their purpose. And when
the natural order is undone,
Zygarde appears,
in order to balance it.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: These three
powerful Pokémon preside over
the never‐ending cycle of life.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: And perhaps,
there is a distinct
possibility that
Zygarde Cells could be watching
over us right now.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Zygarde
Cells are not normally seen.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: However,
they are everywhere
in the Kalos region.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: That was
clearly proven during the
incident involving Team Flare.
ALEXA: Do you have any idea what
happened to Jan after that?
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Honestly no.
The legend doesn't
mention anything
having to do with Jan's fate.
ALEXA:
That means only she knows...
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
There is another possibility.
Perhaps
Zygarde was watching, too.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE:
Can you please show me the
rest of the ruins?
ALEX: Yeah! Sure! I'll introduce
you to the research team.
PROFESSOR SYCAMORE: Thanks very
much. I'm so glad I came here.
GIRL : Oh, dear me!
JAN: Can I help you?
GIRL: Hello. Do you always
take a nap right there, sir?
JAN: Young lady, I was
just having a conversation
with this woman.
GIRL: A conversation?
JAN: Yes. I was telling her that
thanks to a Pokémon
named Xerneas,
the season when flowers
bloom is upon us once again
GIRL: You mean
the Legendary Pokémon?
JAN: A long, long time ago, this
old man actually met Xerneas.
GIRL: You're kidding, right?
JAN: Oh no, I speak the truth.
I met Yveltal, too,
and I also met a third.
A green‐colored Pokémon,
shaped something like this.
GIRL: Wow, amazing!
JAN: The forest stays lush and
beautiful, thanks to the caring
and watchful eyes
of all three of them.
GIRL: Won't you come back to my
house and tell me more stories?
JAN: I don't
want to leave this place.
GIRL: Do you
want to stay because of her?
JAN: Yes.
JAN: And here
I will always remain.
JAN: Now, I must return
to my nap. Thank you for the
conversation, young lady.
It was most enjoyable.
NARRATOR: Xerneas, Yveltal,
and ZygardeThose three will
continue to watch over Kalos and
its history, along with the
statue of the stone‐eyed maiden.